docs/nia: add CTS enterprise license information (#10803)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/nia/license.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Consul-Terraform-Sync Enterprise License
description: >-
  Consul-Terraform-Sync Enterprise License
---

# Consul-Terraform-Sync Enterprise License
<EnterpriseAlert>
  Licenses are only required for Consul-Terraform-Sync Enterprise
</EnterpriseAlert>

> Consul-Terraform-Sync Enterprise binaries require a license in order to start. The required license must be a [Consul Enterprise license](/docs/enterprise/license/overview) as there is no specific Consul-Terraform-Sync Enterprise license. As a result, Consul-Terraform-Sync Enterprise's licensing is very similar to Consul Enterprise. Consul-Terraform-Sync Enterprise is available with all its features with any valid, unexpired Consul Enterprise license regardless of its packaging/pricing model or level.

Reviewer: The content is good though I found it verbose because the CTS ent name is long and very similar to Consul Enterprise. I took a jab at shortening this paragraph by reducing the CTS Ent occurrence from 4 to 3.

```suggestion
Consul-Terraform-Sync Enterprise binaries require a [Consul Enterprise license](/docs/enterprise/license/overview) to run. There is not a specific license type for Consul-Terraform-Sync Enterprise. As a result, licensing is very similar to Consul Enterprise. 

All features offered in Consul-Terraform-Sync Enterprise is available with any valid, unexpired Consul Enterprise license. It is not dependent on your Consul Enterprise  packaging or pricing model.
```

Author: Thank you for shortening this. I think it's more concise and to the point. I do think the last sentence about availability by packaging/pricing is helpful since certain Consul Enterprise features are available with certain tiers and wanted to be explicit that CTS is different and available regardless of tier. Let me try rewriting the sentence to make it more concise.

:nod: that CTS Ent name is so long

Author: I'm realizing just now that you moved the sentence about the Consul packaging/pricing to its own paragraph 🤦‍♀️ . Sorry for not reading carefully before replying 🙇 . The diff for this change can be viewed: https://github.com/hashicorp/consul/pull/10803/commits/2d8c2bf12f81aa86344761ba3d83b32e989659d0

Reviewer: No worries! I thought it was an important sentence too, deserving its own paragraph :D

To get a trial license for Consul-Terraform-Sync Enterprise, you can sign-up for the [trial license for Consul Enterprise](/docs/enterprise/license/faq#q-where-can-users-get-a-trial-license-for-consul-enterprise).

## Setting the License

> Consul-Terraform-Sync Enterprise binary is only offered without a built-in license. Depending on how you would like to set the license, have the license value at hand or saved in a file to disk.

Reviewer: I don't think it's necessary to mention prior ways of licensing (built in), since this will be the first and only method supported for the new enterprise project.

```suggestion
Depending on how you would like to set the license, have the license value at hand or saved in a file to disk.
```

> The options to set the license:
>  - `CONSUL_LICENSE`: environment variable to set the license value
>  - `CONSUL_LICENSE_PATH`: environment variable to set the path to the file containing the license
>  - [`license_path`](/docs/nia/configuration#license_path): configuration file variable to set the path to the file containing the license
> 
> If multiple license options are set, the order of precedence is as follows:
> 1. `CONSUL_LICENSE`
> 1. `CONSUL_LICENSE_PATH`
> 1. `license_path`

Reviewer: You can condense the two bullet/numbered list you move where the "order of precedence" is mentioned!

```suggestion
The options to set the license in order of precedence:
 - `CONSUL_LICENSE`: environment variable to set the license value
 - `CONSUL_LICENSE_PATH`: environment variable to set the path to the file containing the license
 - [`license_path`](/docs/nia/configuration#license_path): configuration file variable to set the path to the file containing the license
```

Author: I was thinking that splitting the information would be easier to skim but don't think the redundancy is worth it. Thanks!

> Note: the [options to set the license and order of precedence](](/docs/enterprise/license/overview#binaries-without-built-in-licenses)) is the same as Consul Enterprise server agents.

Reviewer: The link didn't work as expected

```suggestion
Note: the [options to set the license and order of precedence](/docs/enterprise/license/overview#binaries-without-built-in-licenses) is the same as Consul Enterprise server agents.
```

Author: Ah, thank you for catching!
